

The run_Analysis.R script:
==========================================================
 - Labels the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones data set with descriptive variable names. 
 - Merges training and test related data into one data set
 - Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
 - Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
 - Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject


=================
##Variables

The subject identifier identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample.  Its range is from 1 to 30.

The set of activities identified in the data set are the following:
+ Laying
+ Sitting
+ Standing
+ Walking
+ Walking_Downstairs
+ Walking_Upstairs

The set of features identified in the data set are the following:
+ tBodyAcc-XYZ
+ tGravityAcc-XYZ
+ tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
+ tBodyGyro-XYZ
+ tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
+ tBodyAccMag
+ tGravityAccMag
+ tBodyAccJerkMag
+ tBodyGyroMag
+ tBodyGyroJerkMag
+ fBodyAcc-XYZ
+ fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
+ fBodyGyro-XYZ
+ fBodyAccMag
+ fBodyAccJerkMag
+ fBodyGyroMag
+ fBodyGyroJerkMag


The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.


The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

+ mean(): Mean value
+ std(): Standard deviation

##Data

This script creates two independent tidy data sets.  The first data set is created from the files which make up the UCI Human Activity Recognition (HAR) Using Smartphones Dataset version 1.0.  The set of files summarizes experiments carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, the experiment captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually.  The second data set generated by the script provides an average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

The UCI HAR set of files was randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers were selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

For each record the set of files provides:

+ Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.
+ Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
+ A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
+ Its activity label. 
+ An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

The following files make up the UCI HAR data set

+ 'README.txt'
+ 'features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.
+ 'features.txt': List of all features.
+ 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.
+ 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.
+ 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.
+ 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.
+ 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

The following files are available for the train and test data. Their descriptions are equivalent. 

+ 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 
+ 'train/Inertial Signals/total_acc_x_train.txt': The acceleration signal from the smartphone accelerometer X axis in standard gravity units 'g'. Every row shows a 128 element vector. The same description applies for the 'total_acc_x_train.txt' and 'total_acc_z_train.txt' files for the Y and Z axis. 
+ 'train/Inertial Signals/body_acc_x_train.txt': The body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration. 
+ 'train/Inertial Signals/body_gyro_x_train.txt': The angular velocity vector measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second. 

##Data Cleaning

In order to generate the first tidy data sets for this assignment, I performed the following data manipulations:
+ Utilize descriptive variable names
+ Merge all data into one data set to combine the individual pieces of the test and training data sets.
+ Extract only the mean and statndard variation for each variable
+ Utilize descriptive activity names

In order to generate the second tidy data set (computing the average of each variable for each activity and each subject), I performed the following data manipulations:

